Hello and welcome in this lecture.
It's quite simple really what we're gonna be doing is adding a different cursor when we're over a piece
of UI and if we click on a piece of UI we're no longer going to be doing the action that was behind
it.
It has blocked the action and the right cast that got sent through the world.
So let's dive in and see how that's done so when we play the game at the moment we've got curses when
we go for an enemy we've got curses when we go over the ground and when we're over empty space we get
this none cursor as well.
Well I'd also like to have here is a cursor for when we go over UI.
Now at the moment our UI doesn't really have a background in the future we will have more elaborate
UI will have health bars and stuff like that and we want to have our cursor show that if we click here
nothing's going to happen.
And we also want it to be the case that if we click here nothing happens.
So I'm going to create a little bit of a contrived scenario here because we don't want to dive into
UI just yet but we do want to make this possible to show us the kind of issues we might have.
So let's open up our HUD prefab under.
For me it's under game UI and I'm going to open up the HUD prefab go over to my scene where I have my
hud and I am going to pull in just a black rectangle to be the background for that HUD.
So I'm going to take this 3-D not No.3 object I want a UI object and it's just going to be an image
which I'm going to rename to background and I'm going to put this image up to the top left I'm going
to anchor it to the top left as well and I'm going to reach scale a few things.
If you think in a box like that and I'm going to change the color of it by going to the image and changing
the color I'm not selecting an actual image.
And then I can put it underneath the text by actually moving it up in the hierarchy slightly confusingly
and I'm just going to recenter things a little bit and I even might try and make this a little bit opaque
so we can see behind it.
So let's see if that's possible.
Go to the color and change the alpha yet I can make it slightly.
Transparency is not what I meant.
Rather than opaque so we can see now that in game we have got this this view we've got this health bars
and whatever.
And what we'd like to happen is when we're mousing over that we cannot click through and we ultimately
are going to have a different cursor as well.
So we're going to go over to visual studio code and we are gonna go to our player controller C.S. class
and I want to go to our update method where we are checking first of all if the player is dead then
we are interacting with combat then we're interacting with movement actually before the players even
dead.
We can also interact with UI.
So we want to be checking that cursor.
So I'm going to do an if.
Let's see first of all we want to say if this basically want to say can we interact with UI and we're
going to create a function for that in a second.
And if we can interact with UI then we do nothing else.
We don't interact with combat or movement nor do we need to check if our character is dead and that's
just remind me of something.
If the character actually is dead what cursor type should we be showing on anything that isn't UI.
We should probably be using that none cursor type.
So I am going to go ahead and put a return in here nice and early where we do and if returned just the
same as before going to expand it out with a few brackets and I'm going to make a copy of set cursor
and put that in.
So if we're dead we have the set cursor type none.
If you wanted to have your own special different type of cursor for this situation you could have a
cursor type of type dead maybe has a skull and crossbones if you try and click anywhere that isn't UI
obviously you want to be able to click on UI because you want to be able to reload the level or whatever
it is you give them the player the option at that point to do something with the UI usually in this
kind of game.
So we're going to create that interact with UI method and we're going to have a look at how we want
it to work.
Basically we want to return true or false depending on whether we are hovering over a piece of UI.
Now how does that actually look.
Well for this we need to use Unity's event system which is kind of what handles all the clicking with
UI and we're doing event system.
Looks like I need to include something yet I need to use Unity engine dot event system to get this and
then it's going to be event system dot current.
And then it's going to be dot is pointer over game object.
Now that's confusing because you'd think OK is it over game object is over a game object in the world
is over a game object right.
Well this actually just refers to UI game objects that because we're dealing with the event system.
What it's saying is is this over a game object that is a piece of UI.
Confusing I know but that's what it is.
And it returns a boolean.
So if if it's over some UI then we are interacting with UI.
If it's not over UI then we are not.
So we can go ahead and play to try and test it out see if we are getting that sort of behavior.
I would expect now that if I click somewhere in the UI nothing happens.
But what I'm also seeing is that nothing happens if I click anywhere else which is obviously no good.
Now why is that happening why is it that when I click somewhere else I'm also not being able to interact
with you I and the culprit actually here is the fader because the fader is a piece of you.
Let's go and have a look at our scene just convince ourselves go back to the main scene.
In fact let's go ahead and hit play so we can see what's been put in the world in spawned don't destroy
and load persistent objects we've got a fader and the fader is a canvas so it is a UI object it responds
to UI clicks and such like which obviously is not really ideal.
So what we're going to do is we're gonna go find our Fader prefab so that's going to be over in game
core fader.
And in this prefab you'll notice that the canvas group here has both intractable and blocks recasts.
Now if we actually switch off both of these what we're going to get is that now there is no way to essentially
click on the fate which is fine we don't need to click on the fader but also it is going to make sure
that we can click through to the world which is just what we want.
Fantastic.
So in here I'm gonna be able to click into the world which is just what I wanted.
But if I am here over this piece of UI I cannot click through the UI.
Now that's obviously a little bit confusing because it looks like I can still move I still got my movement
cursor showing up when I'm over that UI fact it depends whatever else I had before.
So if I am over this garden then I go over the wall.
It keeps that cursor so it's not being updated while I go over this game object this UI game object.
So it's time thought your challenge to change that cursor over the UI so you're going to add a new cursor
type for UI specifically remember where you need to do that set the cursor at the right time i.e. when
you're over the UI and not when you're not over the UI and set up a cursor on the player prefab so that
you've got something that looks different.
Pause the video and have a go.
Okay so I'm gonna dive back in here into Visual Studio and The Player controller and first of all I
want to add to the enum make sure when you're adding to the E names that you do this to the end because
actually it comes under the hood.
Just integer values.
And that is what is serialized by unity so if movement was one and you go and insert something in here
then everything that was previously movement now becomes this new location which is a little bit confusing.
If you end up in that situation where you thought your movement cursor was one thing and now it's all
swapped around.
So what we want to do is just add to the end because it's going to be 0 1 2 and 3 3 obviously hasn't
been used yet anyway because we didn't have it in the enum.
So adding to the end up in arms.
That's important.
Now what I'm gonna do is create a UI cursor in here and I am gonna go ahead and use it in our interact
with UI function.
So at the moment we're just returning this boolean but what I want to do is in the case that it's true.
I want to actually set the cursor going to turn this into an if statement that says if the event system
is over a pointer object then we're gonna want to want to do two things First of all we're gonna want
to set the cursor to cursor type of DOT whoopsie daisies and Dot UI like so and then we are going to
want to just return true because well we are over some UI and we can interact with UI ultimately answering
that question of the boolean of the interact with UI boolean so then we want to do return false.
In the case that this if statement wasn't returning already that should pretty much block UI for us
but we do need to go and add in a cursor so I'm gonna go to the characters player prefab and on the
player prefab scroll on down to where we've got our player controller and we've got add different element
types.
Now I'm gonna go ahead and duplicate that element type of nun and switch it over to UI and I'm gonna
want to find a new nice cursor.
So let's go ahead and select this cursor.
I've got something for UI and then let's have a look.
What can we do.
I'm gonna go for white for UI now that makes it slightly confusing on movement.
I think let's see if there's something more appropriate for movement.
There might not be at this time.
I'll try this.
Crosshairs for movement.
Instead so selecting the player again into D selected it and moving these crosshairs for movement and
then probably I can keep the cursor is white.
Yep I think so.
Let's go ahead and hit play now.
So I'm seeing the crosshairs when I can move to a location.
I'm seeing the sword when I can attack when I'm over the UI.
I get a UI cursor a white UI cursor saying I can interact with this UI.
Fantastic.
Now in the next lecture we are gonna be looking at how we can make weapon pickups intractable and in
the process of doing that we gonna create a really generic system for any component in the world to
be intractable and set the cursor type so I will see you in that lecture.